# VR-Visual-Search
A VR application for a visual search task in a naturalistic environment.
The VR headset used was the HTC Vive Pro Eye (1440 × 1600 pixels resolution per eye, framerate of 90 fps, nominal field of view of 110◦). The built-in eye tracker was used to record participant’s gaze at 90 Hz with an accuracy of 1◦ visual angle. All scenes were created using Unity 3D. The computer used to render the virtual environment had an Intel Xeon W-2225 processor at 4.10 GHz and 32 GB of RAM. The graphics card was an NVIDIA Quadro RTX 4000 (8 GB of dedicated GDDR6 memory). 

**Experiment Design**
The two independent variables were: (1) time pressure (i.e., with time constraint, without time constraint) and (2) reward value (i.e., no reward, low value, high value). This yielded a 2  3 within subject factorial design and blocked by reward value to prevent participants from devising strategies to prioritize their effort on high reward blocks. Block order was counterbalanced to mitigate presentation order effects. Each trial was guaranteed to have one and only one target present in the scene.

**Time Limit & Reward Values Settings**
The chosen time limit allowed the participants to locate any target in the room while still posing a challenge. Setting a time limit depends on the room’s dimensions, object crowdedness, target discriminability among other factors. Based on a pilot study with six participants, the mean search time was 1.97 seconds (95% CI = [1.64 , 2.3] ). Thus, a 3 second time limit was established. The low (1 point) and high (10 points) reward values were chosen based on previous literature.

**Scene Development and Design Considerations**
The number of different objects (i.e., targets) the participants could be tasked to find was 24. For each block, 20 objects were randomly selected as targets, and no object occurred twice in the same block. The target and reward value order were randomized for each participant. The targets could appear on the floor (i.e., a speaker stand or marble vase), shelf (i.e., a flower vase), and/or table (i.e., a coffee cup) surfaces; however, where the object appeared was semantically appropriate. For example, a book could appear on a table, shelf, or couch, but the floor lamp could only appear on the floor and not on top of a shelf or table. 
Participants were shown a slideshow of all objects and their names at the beginning of the experiment to eliminate any possible confusion in finding the right object42. To control the effect of search history, target eccentricity, and maintain environment novelty, the objects’ locations were randomized every trial. No object appeared on the same surface on two consecutive trials (e.g., a mug appearing on the same table on trials 1 and 2), and no target appeared on the same surface on two consecutive trials (a book target appearing on a table on trial 1, followed by a cup target appearing on the same table on trial 2).
